Ingest dev guide (#1415)
stellar/stellar-docs: docs/data/ingest-library/developer_guide/ledgerbackends/captivecore.mdx

---
title: Captive Core
sidebar_position: 0
---

> Captive Core is used to either ingest ledgers in real-time or replay historical ledgers without any data processing. It connects to the Stellar network and replays historical ledgers or streams new ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Captive Core invokes the `stellar-core` binary as a subprocess to stream ledgers from the Stellar network. It can be used to stream a ledger range from the past or to stream new ledgers whenever they are confirmed by the network.
```

## Prerequisites

Using captive Core requires stellar-core binary to be installed. Since stellar-core is resource-intensive, it has specific hardware requirements outlined here: [Hardware Requirements](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/validators/admin-guide/prerequisites#hardware-requirements).

### Installation

1. Install Stellar Core:

   - Option 1: Build from source by following the [Installation Guide](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/validators/admin-guide/installation#installing-from-source)
   - Option 2: Install via a package manager by referring to the [Package-based Installation Guide](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/validators/admin-guide/installation#package-based-installation)

2. Verify installation:
   ```bash
   ./stellar-core version
   ```

## Configuration and Usage

After installing the `stellar-core` binary, you'll need to provide it configuration in TOML format. This configuration requires at a minimum:

- The **passphrase** of the Stellar network you want to connect to.
- The path to **history archives**, necessary for initialization.

**Step 1: Generate a `CaptiveCoreToml` configuration**

```go

> captiveCoreToml, err := ledgerbackend.NewCaptiveCoreToml(ledgerbackend.CaptiveCoreTomlParams{
>     NetworkPassphrase:  network.PublicNetworkPassphrase,
>     HistoryArchiveURLs: network.PublicNetworkhistoryArchiveURLs,
> })

Reviewer 2: it's not evident how the toml core config is determined for desired network, should this example show something that highlights the choice to pull in the network specific core config, taking advantage of the static network configs we added in earlier:

```suggestion

captiveCoreToml, err := ledgerbackend.NewCaptiveCoreTomlFromData(
    ledgerbackend.PubnetDefaultConfig,
    ledgerbackend.CaptiveCoreTomlParams{
        NetworkPassphrase:  network.PublicNetworkPassphrase,
        HistoryArchiveURLs: network.PublicNetworkhistoryArchiveURLs,
    }
)

```

Author: Good catch! I'll fix that by adding the default config. Otherwise, it'll just use a random hash for quorum set which is fine for getting historical data (bounded range), but it'll break for streaming (unbounded range). On a related note, all our examples are just for bounded/historical data. We should add one that shows how to use Captive Core for unbounded/streaming too.

Author: done.
